CALM-S: RESUME AFTER VIRTUALIZATION IS ENABLED
23 September 2026

This study is NOT complete. No experiment process is currently running.
All paid work remains cached in calms_runs/api_ledger.sqlite.
Spend is $16.0291502; the existing cumulative ceiling is $99.
Do not create a fresh ledger or reset its spending total.

MACHINE BLOCKER
Win32_Processor.VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled returned False.
Two attempts to install dedicated WSL2 distribution CALMS-Linux failed with
HCS_E_HYPERV_NOT_INSTALLED. wsl --install --no-distribution reported success,
but did not resolve the firmware requirement. No restart was initiated.
The user will enable virtualization and restart later.

AFTER RESTART
1. Recheck firmware virtualization and Windows Virtual Machine Platform.
   If the Windows feature is still disabled, an Administrator terminal is needed
   to enable it. Do not restart the computer automatically.
2. Check whether CALMS-Linux exists before repeating installation:
   wsl --list --verbose
   If absent, install the dedicated Ubuntu-24.04 WSL2 distribution, named
   CALMS-Linux, into this workspace's .calms-linux directory, without launching
   an interactive desktop. Do not unregister or modify unrelated distributions.
3. Install Docker Engine within that Linux environment using the official guide.
   Run the CALM-S Python process there against this same workspace/ledger.
4. Build the prepared coding image from the minimal context (no .env mounted):
   docker build -t calms-evalplus:20260923 calms_data/code-runtime
5. Validate before spending:
   python scripts_calms/run_code_benchmarks.py --check-only
   Both benchmark families must pass canonical-solution and negative controls.
   The official EvalPlus adapter is syntax checked, but NOT runtime validated yet.
6. Run development, then test, preserving all artifacts:
   python scripts_calms/run_code_benchmarks.py --split dev --live --max-usd 99
   python scripts_calms/run_code_benchmarks.py --split test --live --max-usd 99
   Do not launch both stages together: test requires development-fitted cards
   and cost estimates. Two worker decodes, four workers, three forecasters.
   80 dev + 200 test tasks means at most 3,080 new API calls for full collection.
   The cap can stop collection before completion; retain partial records.
7. Analyze code matrices with the existing static-fit/replay/attack machinery;
   freeze development-selected settings before opening code test outcomes.
   This is a new benchmark protocol, not an externally registered experiment.

IMPLEMENTATION STILL NEEDED, BEYOND THE MACHINE BLOCKER
- Genuine AppWorld task lifecycle, resettable shadow execution and verification.
  Official source is retained at calms_data/external-sources/appworld. The QA DAG
  experiment is not AppWorld, and no AppWorld agent is claimed ready.
- Faithful applicable Agora / AgentLance adaptations. Existing coupled scores
  and new coalition simulations are not reproductions of either system.
- Live controlled shift streams, two-window reputation/ownership attacks, and
  confirmatory power/replication design. Existing drift evidence is synthetic.
- The original historical simulator is missing; it cannot be reconstructed by
  relabeling the new simulator. Retain the budget-accounting discrepancy.

NEW WORK COMPLETED BEFORE RESTART
- 31 real-matrix routing arms, 4,650 episode records; development-selected
  contextual epsilon-greedy, equal pooling with identical audit costs, three
  pooling methods, nonuniform IPS, delayed updates and one-forecaster ablations.
- Exact conditional propensity moments and 24,000 Monte Carlo trials on real
  matrices, with complete audit selections, estimates and effective sample sizes.
- 120 development-fitted affine coalition settings; 18,000 held-out comparisons.
- Official expanded HumanEval+ and MBPP+ data retained; splits fixed at 80 dev,
  200 test, with remaining tasks held unused. Dataset and source hashes saved.
- 44 tests passed. New coding adapter syntax checked; Docker execution pending.

See calms_runs/remaining-replays-20260923/RESULTS.txt for findings and limitations.
Do not describe the Monte Carlo trials as additional independent task samples.
Do not overwrite CALM-S-experiments-20260923.zip or its original receipts.
All raw recorded data and all negative results must remain available.
